[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Nobody benefits
from poor health care.
Nobody benefits from
adverse reactions
to drugs and medicines.
And nobody benefits
from the wrong diagnosis
and the wrong treatment.
What we need to do
is look at the system
and try and improve it.
All systems do need improving
and reviewing from time
to time.
We do need to use surgery and
chemotherapy and radiotherapy
and drugs.
But we, I think, from the
evidence that's available,
use it too soon
and too frequently.
There are many
things that we can
do for many patients
and individuals
either in the clinic or in the
hospital that don't require
drugs and surgery.
And we can prevent a lot
of unnecessary surgery
and unnecessary prescriptions
if we look at changing a diet,
doing a bit of exercise, and
looking at natural health
products or
complementary medicines
if you like that have some good
scientific evidence for using
them.
I'll give you an example.
In arthritis, the
new breed of drug
has been called the
COX-2 Inhibitor.
Now these COX-2 Inhibitors
are very powerful drugs.
They're very good
anti-inflammatory drugs,
they're very good at
reducing pain in arthritis.
However, it's been
shown with some of them
that they are so
powerful that they
cause the blood to thicken.
And you end up with a
heart attack or somebody
with a stroke.
And there has been
some deaths from it.
We know that
turmeric, for example,
which is a spice, a
bright orange spice.
It contains COX-2 Inhibitors
that do the same thing.
Turmeric has been
used traditionally
for arthritis and a whole
range of other diseases.
The extracts of turmeric
have the ability
to inhibit COX, that
is they're COX-2
Inhibitors like the drugs.
We can make it so that
it's safe, it's effective,
and it is fast acting.
So if it's the
right preparation,
you can end up using something
that's natural, safe,
and reliably effective instead
of going to the drug, which
is more powerful in its effect.
This makes more sense.
But it's not to
say that we don't
keep the drug on the shelf
and available to people
who don't respond to the
natural health product.
With regard to the
natural health product,
it has other benefits as well.
That is what we call a
broad spectrum effect.
So you get some other
benefits from the turmeric
or the Curcuma
from the turmeric,
compared to the ordinary drug.
One of them is the management
of psoriasis, which is
an inflammatory skin condition.
So if you'd had
arthritis and psoriasis,
you're killing two birds with
the one stone so to speak.
Fantastic.
Peptic ulcers, for
example, gastric ulcers,
duodenal ulcers.
We've used antacids.
We've used agents to block
the production of acid.
We have used a whole range of
anti-anxiety agents and drugs
and chemical substances.
And therefore when they fail,
we resort to surgery and cut
nerves to the stomach and the
duodenum, or even cut it out.
And very rarely
in a hospital does
a gastric surgeon or
gastroenterologist
take a history, a dietary
history of the patient
and find out what
they're eating.
Then somebody discovers
that the ulcers
are associated with
helicobacter, a bacteria that
gets in the air and
weakens the stomach lining
and causes an ulcer.
Well, my approach to this is you
strengthen up the stomach wall,
you get rid of the
adverse bacteria,
and you look at
the patient's diet
and remove the offending
foods that cause
inflammation in the stomach.
And it's well documented
that allergic foods
can cause inflammation.
And you eat
something that you're
allergic to or drink something
you're allergic to, like milk
for example, which
is traditionally
used to treat ulcers.
And you're just producing
more inflammation
in the stomach lining.
Once the inflammation is
there, there is weakness.
The bacteria get there,
they start growing.
You end up with
further weakening
dead tissue and an ulcer.
Now the logical thing to
do is to strengthen up
the stomach wall.
We know we can do that
with vitamin A and zinc
and vitamin C,
very simple things.
We know that we can modify
the inflammatory response
with a number of herbs,
licorice is one of them.
And we know that we can
get rid of the bacteria
with probiotics or
the friendly bacteria.
And we know we can reduce
the inflammation by going off
the foods that are causing the
problem in the first place.
So one or two
visits to my clinic,
and people with gastric ulcers
and duodenal ulcers were fixed.
And for 34 years in my clinical
practice, that's the way
we did it.
We never treated
them with a drug.
Yet the drug industry
has changed so many drugs
in that period of
time, and now people
are being put on
the triple therapies
to kill off these bacteria.
And what's happening
is the antibiotics,
because of the overuse
of them, are producing
antibiotic resistant bacteria.
So antibiotics in the future
are not going to be useful.
And so therefore,
all the science
that's gone into those
with valuable antibiotics
is going to be wasted.
And we're not going to have too
many more unique antibiotics
come into the
marketplace the way
things are going at the moment.
So really we are not looking
at the cause of the problem.
Certainly looking
at the bacteria
was closest to the cause of
the problem, but not really
the underlying cause
of the problem.
Why were the bacteria
there in the first place?
Another case comes to mind
of a baby two-year-old child
readmitted to the children's
hospital on many occasions
with sterile abscesses,
huge big abscesses
on the arms and legs and body.
Every time a culture
was made, there
was no bacteria found at
all in these abscesses.
But the child was undergoing
surgery, incision and drainage
of the abscesses,
and being discharged.
That child was actually being
fed fortified milk, cow's milk
in the hospital.
That child had an
allergy to cow's milk.
The hospital hadn't
recognized it.
And as soon as that child
went off the fortified milk,
the abscesses stopped forming.
All that was happening was
there was a massive challenge
on that child's immune
system, was producing
huge amounts of white cells.
And they were depositing
abscesses in the skin.
To me, a serious
case of burying one's
head in the sand and
back in the days,
and it's still occurring
in most of the hospitals.
Doctors don't recognize allergy
and sensitivity to foods.
In the same hospital, they were
giving children fortified milk
who had severe eczema.
Take them off the milk.
Give them some primrose oil and
some zinc and a few B vitamins.
And their skin dramatically
changes back to normal.
We've still got a health system
which really is a disease care
system, and dominated by
doctors, and hospitals,
pathologists, and
pharmacologists.
And that sort of a system is
going to look after itself.
It wants more work, and it's
not interested in reducing
the amount, truly not interested
in reducing the amount
of illness and disease.
The more work they get,
the more profit there is.
And so that's part of
the medical industry.
And it does need to be there.
It's very, very important.
But we do need to have a
Prime Minister and a Health
Minister who are
going to take up
the responsibility
of doing something
about our internal environment.
I'm not just simply talking
about global warming.
Look how long it took
for the government
to recognize that
global warming,
despite the fact that
the miner's canary was
falling over.
And there was scientific
evidence 15 to 20 years ago.
We told the government
25 years ago,
at least I told the
government 25 years ago,
that we're going to have a
cancer epidemic and an obesity
and diabetes epidemic.
And what do we got now?
We've got a a diabesity, or an
obesity and diabetes epidemic.
The only change
that's going to occur
is if there is an established
Center of Excellence
for health outside of
the Department of Health,
because that still is
dominated by medical interests.
We need to have a
Center of Excellence
where the experts in health
are gathered together.
Not just the medical doctors.
They don't know very
much about health.
They treat high
cholesterol with a drug,
whereas I treat high cholesterol
with some exercise, fish oils,
and a diet.
We need to do it cheaply.
We need to do it efficiently.
And we need to do it with
the best minds and the best
information that's available.
And we need to
remove the prejudice.
We need to remove the
bias from the discussion.
And we need to quell the noise
that comes from the vested
interests.
And if we establish a
Center of Excellence,
we need a Center of
Excellence in which
a website can be
established that's got
highly reliable information that
has been derived from doctors
who practice nutritional
medicine, doctors who practice
environmental medicine,
natural therapists who practice
naturopathy,
herbalists who practice
highly responsible herbal
and scientific and ethical
herbal medicine,
exercise physiologists.
We need information
from people who
can give advice on stress
management and working
with the mind.
And we need to have a part
of our so-called health care
system funding these areas,
whether it be private,
which is starting to happen.
Where alternative practitioners
or complementary medicine
practitioners are being funded
by private health insurance.
We need the government to
fund some of this as well.
We need to have
not only a website,
but we need to have
proper education
campaigns, public education
campaigns, public awareness
campaigns.
You know, the public should
know that 25% of them
are deficient in vitamin D.
And next time they
go to the doctor,
if they're not tested
for vitamin D deficiency
and that's corrected,
that they're
going to end up with arthritis,
osteoporosis, and some cancers.
They need to know that.
And they need to know
what to do about it.
They need to know that
every time, they'd
be educated every time you walk
into a restaurant or takeaway
shop or whatever, you need
to be able to recognize
the foods that are
going to be killing you,
and those foods that are
going to be saving you.
And to be able to
find a balance and be
able to make a proper choice.
We need to put taxes on
some ingredients in foods.
We need to put taxes
on cholesterol.
We need to put
more taxes on wine.
We need to put more
taxes on alcohol.
taxes on tobacco.
And we need to do something
about the drug problem.
We need to do something
about the sugar problem.
So these are all part of
the education package.
So education, public
information system, and we
need to have proper
research done and conducted
by proper researchers.
Research that's being done by
complementary practitioners
in this country at the
moment is rudimentary.
And funding is still
dominated by the interests
that are involved in disease
care and medical care delivery.
We need to separate that.
The two need to
talk to one another,
but health care needs to be
separated from medical care
and disease care.
My mother developed diabetes.
So I did a bit of research
in vitamins and diabetes
back in the 70s.
And I was able to reduce
her insulin requirements
from 80 units a day
to 20 units a day
and turn her into a
happier, healthier person.
So that was the start of it.
But once you start asking
questions, you can't stop.
And it's got to a
point where I can't
believe that we have people
who are leaders in our country
who only listen to small
sectors of the community,
and take advice from small
and leave large sections
of the community out of it.
And there are too many
pecuniary interests involved
in decision making in Canberra.
I believe that we've got
some very good regulators,
but we have some very
incompetent regulators as well,
and the same with politicians.
They should open up more
to the evidence that's
available to them.
It comes back to the whole
problem of the global warming.
You know, they
didn't believe it.
They still don't believe it.
Now whether man is
contributing to it or not,
it's a fact of life.
It could be sunspots.
It could be the
wobble of the earth.
It could be the change
in the orbit that occurs
every half a million years.
I don't know, but you
know, it's a fact of life.
There are those changes.
There's a fact of
life in medicine
that if I take your
bone and measure it,
you've got 5,000
times more lead in it
than you would have if you'd
been an Egyptian Pharaoh.
If I take some fat
samples, you've
still got DDT, DDE, and
DDD in your fat samples,
even though DDT has been
banned a long time ago, as well
as a whole range
of other chemicals.
But does anybody want
to hear about them?
No.
If I look at your brain
and do a brain biopsy,
I'll find a large amount
of mercury in your system
if you've had a amalgam
fillings put in your mouth.
You know, what makes amalgam
mercury so much safer when
you put it into a tooth
compared to when it's
sitting on a dentist's tray?
It's highly toxic,
and the dentist
has to handle it as one of the
most toxic substances known
to man.
But it's made safe when it's
put into your tooth, which
is nonsense.
Nobody wants to
hear these things.
Nobody wants to really listen.
Nobody wants to believe
that our food chain,
in spite of the fact that
we've got one of the wealthiest
countries in the
world and we've got
a wonderful agricultural
system, we're
poisoning ourselves with
unbalanced, highly processed,
high calorie, nutrient
depleted foods,
ruining our immune systems.
I'll ask one of our
top immunologists
in this country about the
important role of zinc
in the immune system.
I mean, he's been a
decorated scientist.
And in a group of
people, he said,
Dr. Brighthope, if you put zinc
on your Wheaties every morning,
it won't make an
iota of difference
to your immune system.
If you go and have a look
at the literature that's
been published, the
deficiencies of zinc
are contributing to enormous
problems with immunity.
And supplementation
will correct it.
Now this man is an
eminent scientist
in this country who
believes that the best we've
done for prevention is stopping
smoking, wearing seat belts,
and vaccination.
Exercise and diet don't
come into his equation,
which is a disgrace.
It's really a disgrace.
[MUSIC PLAYING]